# Homework 1: Introduce yourself

### 1 Organization

Before you get started, think about about how you'd like to organize your repository.
It's a good idea to come up with a naming convention. 

For example, if you look at the history of this repository, you'll see I called the
first homework assignment a bunch of things. It was confusing. Finally, I decided
all homework assignments would start with the common abbreviation for homework: hw. I
decided to follow that with the assignment number. Then things were out of order, so 
I added 0 to the tens digit so things would be 01, 02, 03 instead of 1, 2, 3. This
forces the files to be in order.

Decide how you want to arrange your own repository. Do you want to create folders?
Do you want to name things a particular way? Do you want to store information that
isn't explicitly required in your repository just so things from the class are together?

You can change your mind later if you decide you don't like it, but it will be easier
if you start out organized.

### 2 Introduce yourself
No one but you and the me will see your repository, but I'd like to know a bit more
about you. 

1. Create a new .md file. If you know how to do this another way, make it however you
want. If you don't, you can do this through the github web interface. Just go
to your repository, click "create new file", and type in a file name. 

        aside: 
> > What's .md? It stands for markdown. Markdown is a plain text file that uses symbols
> > for formatting. You can skip this bit if you like; learning markdown is optional. 
> > If you don't use the symbols, it will just look like a plain text file. Check out
> > the 
> > [markdown cheat sheet](https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet)
> > or just look at this file in a plain text editor so the markdown styling isn't applied.

2. Provide the following (please label clearly):

    * What name are you registered under? (It's probably different from your github id.)
  
    * What you prefer to be called? (If you prefer the name that isn't the one the registrar
    has you listed by.) Include pronunciation tips if you think I'll need them.
    Which syllable(s) should be stressed? If there are tones, what are they?
    
    * What pronouns do you prefer? (e.g. he/him/his, she/her/hers, they/them/their)
    
    * Give 3 fun facts about yourself.
    
    * If you're comfortable doing so, include a picture. I am horrible at names and this will
    make it easier for me to learn your name. If you aren't up for including an image with
    markdown, just give it a clear filename and put it in the same place.
