# Homework 2: Plain English Algorithm

### 1 Why?

For some people, programming seems daunting, not because it's inherently hard, but
because it seems unfamiliar. But we use algorithms in real life all the time. The 
only difference is that we tend to skip over things we assume whoever we're giving
instructions to already knows.

So writing an algorithmm using English instead of a programming language can help
us recognize the similarities.

### 2 Aside: Assumptions vs. Detail

Algorithms are like recipes. 

My grandmother has a recipe for flatbread that calls 
for 2 cups of flour plus additional flour "as needed for rolling." It actually 
needs about 10 cups. There's loads of oral tradition wrapped
up in this. The goal is super thin flatbread that is a tiny fraction of the thicknes
of a tortilla and you can't get it that thin if you actually mix all that flour in.
So having it separated out makes a kind of sense to someone who knows about the
recipe already. But it's completely bewildering to a novice. She doesn't even describe 
rolling, cooking, or eating it. She just assumes that anyone looking at the recipe *knows*.

It didn't even occur to me until I finished that last paragraph that eating it is an issue. Because I just *know*. 
But it's an issue. The objective was to fill barrels full of dry flatbread so it
would never spoil. But you don't eat it dry, you moisten it and let it sit a bit to 
soften before eating. 

People 
don't cook as much as they used to, so looking at old recipes is jarring to a modern
reader. We aren't experts with stores of ancestral knowledge passed down through oral
tradition. We don't need to fill a barrel full of dried flatbread to last through the 
arctic winter. We buy things from the store. We kind of need to know it takes 10 cups 
of flour, how much it makes, how long it takes to make, what materials to use, and how 
to resuscitate it for eating. You'll never find a modern recipe with this lack of precision.

Modern recipes have precise measurements and step by step instructions. They are
algorithms. Part of the point of this exercise is to figure out how to provide enough detail
for someone who doesn't share any of our points of reference. The biggest challenge to
beginning programmers is figuring out how to write cookbook-style algorithms instead of
grandmother-style algorithms.

Assume I have a horrible vocabulary, have no clue what you're asking me to draw, 
and can't fill in any blanks or details if you don't spell them out for me.

### 3 Problem

Write an algorithm that tells me how to draw something. 

I will try to follow your instructions, which means doing this 34 times, so keep it simple. 
It should go without saying, but also keep it appropriate.
