# Homework 3: Convert from Fahrenheit to Celsius


### 1 Overview

The first program someone writes is usually to print "hello world" 
to the screen--you should have done this in class. The second program 
someone writes is usually to convert Fahrenheit to Celsius or vice 
versa. Why? It's probably the simplest useful problem to solve. You
don't need to know anything fancy, just be able to print the result.
It's basically Hello World plus math and variables.

### 2 Task

Convert from Fahrenheit to Celcius. You can hard-code the initial
fahrenheit value and just print the result.

### 3 Hints & Whys

#### **Hard code** 
 Hard code = assign a value to a variable. Good programmers *never*
 write their entire program at once. Hard coding a variable lets you
 write the entire rest of your program without creating a user interface.

 Especially in scientific computing, you might never need a user interface.
 Often, you're writing scripts that only need to be used a few times by no
 one who isn't you.

 If you understand the program and have the code, you can
 just type in new values and re-run the program with new values any time you
 want. You only need a user interface if someone who doesn't understand your 
 program needs to use your program, or if you need to use your own program
 often enough that not having one becomes annoying. 

 If you're writing code to be used by other people, you will eventually
 need to write a user interface. But writing things all at once is bad form.
 Why? Well, if you type out your whole program and have a bug, you won't know
 where it is. Is your math wrong? Is your interface wrong? If you make sure
 one part works well then add the rest piece by piece and test in between,
 you'll have a really good idea where the problem is if one comes up.

 * Use **human readable** (aka **self-documenting**) variable names. What 
 does this mean? In math you often use letters as variable names. That's
 an adaptation to writing on paper, where physical space is limited. Since 
 textbooks are also worried about fitting on a page, even if they are 
 electronically distributed, you'll find that most code examples in textbooks 
 and even online tutorials that were historically derived from books use
 very short variable names.
 
 The history of paper is a huge constraint on anyone creating sample code.
 It's enough to make any student think short variable names are normal. And
 they were... in the 1980s when computer memory was at a premium too. 
 Current best practices involve long names that essentially explain what the variable is. 
 Download a modern tutorial by someone in industry instead of a textbook 
 author and instead of seeing variable names like "foo"
 and "bar", you'll see variable names that lookSomethingLikeThis or 
 look_something_like_this that thoroughly document the variable being used. 

 In a small program like this, you can *probably* get away with f and c as
 variable names, but whenever possible, try to get into the habit of using
 something less ambiguous. You *will* reuse your old code, and you *will*
 forget the details (making the reuse a bit more time consuming) if your 
 variable names aren't clear.
 
 There's a balancing act, of course. Anything I'm completely confident with
 spelling, I'll just use. I'm a bit
 squeamish about using fahrenheit and celcius as variable names, because
 I'm never sure I spelled them right. Consistency matters for variable
 names. If I have cel**c**ius and cel**s**ius, that makes two different
 variables. I like degreesF and degreesC, since I'm much more confident
 in my ability to consistently spell degrees, and degrees communicates.

 Most modern editors will auto-complete variable names, so spelling isn't an 
 issue. But if you're using one that doesn't, be thoughtful about your
 personal spelling tendencies.

#### **Test thoroughly.** 

Make sure your code works. Most people have boiling
 point and freezing point memorized. So edit your fahrenheit variable and
 run the code a few times to make sure it works in those cases. You might
 also check a handful of other values.
 
---
(c) 2019 by Cristyn Magnus.

licensed under a
Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License.

You should have received a copy of the license along with this
work.  If not, see http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/.
