# Homework 4: Convert from Fahrenheit to Celcius + user input

*This builds on homework 3. If you haven't done that, you should
do it first.*

### 1 Add user input

Once you've gotten to the point where you want other people to 
use one of your programs, or where you use your program so much
that editing the program to edit a variable gets annoying, you'll
want user input.

Edit your program to take input from the user.

### 2 Hints

 * Most programming languages separate out printing a prompt to the
 user and getting input from the user. The input function allows you to
 type a prompt to the user, so when you're using python, you should
 do that instead of making a separate print statement.

 * Make your prompt look like a prompt. It's important to distinguish
 visually to the user that this isn't just you giving them information,
 this is a request for information and they have to type something in
 now. Put some kind of symbol
 at the end of the text. Common examples are ```>``` and ```:```.

 * Make your prompt communicate what the user is supposed to do. 
 Don't just give them ```:``` and expect them to put in the right 
 kind of input.

 * Put a space at the end! You'd be surprised how many times people
 will type their own space if the prompt ends with ```:``` instead of
 ```: ```. Once they've added their own text that isn't just a number,
 it's harder to convert it into a number, which is what you'll
 need if you want to do math with it.

 * Speaking of type, you'll need to convert it. All user input that
 comes from the keyboard is ```string``` type, and you need it to be
 ```float``` type if you want to do math on it.

 

---
(c) 2019 by Cristyn Magnus.

licensed under a
Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License.

You should have received a copy of the license along with this
work.  If not, see http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/.