# Homework 5: Madlib(s)


### 1 What are madlibs?
Madlibs is a game where someone takes a short story and removes a bunch
of crucial words. Then, they ask a friend for replacement words, telling
them nothing about the story, just that they need to provide nouns, verbs,
adjectives, and so on. Then, they read it back to them with their 
answers plugged into the blanks.

### 2 Example madlib

1. Ask a friend for the following: noun, person, adjective, etc. One for 
each item in () below. 

(noun) is a game where (person) takes a (adjective) (noun) and (verb) a
bunch of (adjective) words. Then, (pronoun) ask a (noun) for (adjective) words,
telling them nothing about the (noun), just that they need to provide (plural noun),
(plural noun), (plural noun) and so on. Then, they (verb) it back to them 
with their (noun) plugged into the (plural noun).

2. Replace the items in parentheses with the words your friend gave you, and 
read it back to them. 

Since your friend shouldn't know what the original text is about, this 
usually results in humor. 

### 3 Make a madlib
1. Find a very short story somewhere--one paragraph is what you usually find
in madilbs books. A few very short paragraphs probably wouldn't be too much.
More than that gets to be a bit much. 

You can make something up or find something
in the public domain. If you're really stuck, you could lift a paragraph from
the textbook. 

2. Pick the words you think it would be funny and find their parts of speech.

3. Make a program that asks people for the parts of speech. Then print the completed
story back to them.

### 4 Hints
 * By default, print ends with a new line. It can look a bit weird to see a 
 paragraph broken up like that. But print has an optional second argument, which
 is what it will end with. If you do something like this:

 ```
 print("blah")
 print("blah")
 ```
 you will end up with

 ```
 blah
 blah
 ```

 But, if you do this :

 ```
 print("blah", end="")
 print("blah")
 ```
 You will end up with this:

 ```
 blahblah
 ```

 Ending the line with ```""```, which is an empty string, will mean that nothing 
 happens at the end of the print instead of the default new line.

 * You can use **+** with text to concatenate strings. So something like 
 ```print("blah"+"blah")``` will also give you ```blahblah```.

 * Think about formatting. Lots of people don't think about blank spaces. They matter.
 If all this time we had really wanted "blah blah" instead of "blahblah", we would have 
 to have a space somewhere: at the end of the first "blah", like this: ```"blah "``` or 
 before the second blah, like this: ```" blah"```. We could also make a space it's own
 thing we add in, like this: ```print("blah"+" "+blah)```. 
 
 * You'll want to assign variables to all the parts of the story and the parts of speech
 you get from user input. You can't just print things right away or the story will be mixed
 in with the prompts to the user.

---
(c) 2019 by Cristyn Magnus.

licensed under a
Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License.

You should have received a copy of the license along with this
work.  If not, see http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/.