# Homework 6: Drawing 1

### 1 Play

If you want to program well, you need to play. What does this mean? Try a 
bit of everything and see what you can do with it. Try the same function with
different variables and see what changes. After you experiment a bit, you'll
have a sense of what things do and what will work for you.

### 2 Draw something

Draw something using the graphics library that comes with the textbook (find it
in your individual repository). Pick a shape from the graphics library and
try to make something visually interesting by using that shape in different ways.
Play with all the variables that go with it and see what you can come up with.

 * Use only one shape from the graphics library

 * Use the shape at least 20 times (you can use it more if you want)

 * Play with as many of the shape's properties as you can.

### 3 Hints

#### Borrow from your past self

The in-class play activity was the opposite of this: use as many objects as you
can from the graphics library in a single image. Make a copy of that program
and edit it. It will help you pick which of the objects you want to use for this
activity. 

If you don't find it inspiring, at the very least you can use it
as a template for creating a window and editing the object you end up choosing
for this excersize.

#### Copy & Paste are your friends

In an activity like this, copy and paste are your friend. Use one working version
of the object as a template, copy and paste it a bunch, and edit the different
pieces to make it look like you want.

Order of drawing might matter. If you want something in front of something else,
cut/paste it after the place where you draw the thing you want it to be in front
of.

#### Keyboard shortcuts are your friends

If you type much at all, you'll know how much time is wasted by removing your
hands from the keyboard. Every time you reach for your mouse, you waste your time.
If you do a lot of editing, it adds up. Even if it takes a bit of extra time at
first, trying to learn some keyboard shortcuts now will save you a ton of time
by the end of the semester. 

The amount of time saved by using keyboard shortcuts makes employers cringe
over employees who won't learn them. It's like they're giving you an extra week
or two of paid vacation. But instead of using it to relax and recharge, you're
just spending that time burning yourself out with unnecessary extra labor.

There are keyboard shortcuts for almost anything:
 * switching between applications, windows, tabs, desktops, etc.
 * jumping around with your cursor (skipping through words, lines, around the page, etc.)
 * doing things within an application (copy, paste, save, and application-specific commands)

Applications will usually list their shortcuts in their menu (just look to the right of
the description). If something works for one application, it usually works for another 
(unless it's Adobe--they're notorious for doing their own thing, but they're internally 
consistent).

Nearly all applications and operating systems use the same shortcuts for essential commands. 
With most shortcuts, if they are ctrl-something on windows or linux, they are 
command-something on mac. If you're a mac user, get used to looking at ```ctrl``` and 
thinking ```command```, because most resources are windows-oriented.

Here are the big ones:

 * ctrl-s: save
 * ctrl-x: cut
 * ctrl-c: copy
 * ctrl-v: paste
 * ctrl-n: open a new...
 * alt-tab (win/linux) or command-tab (mac): switch between windows

#### Ideas

If you aren't sure what to draw here are some ideas to jog your creativity:

 * Create textures by using multiple objects with the same or similar properties
 with their (x,y) coordinates offset just a bit.
 
 * Make compound shapes by putting multiple instances of your shape next to each
 other with the same color properties.

 * Do an image search for modern art and look at images where artists have done
 complicated things with simple, geometric shapes.

#### Don't worry

If don't feel very artistic, don't worry. Just checking off the requirements of 
the assignment will be worth something, so start there and hand it in if jumping
through the requirements doesn't jog any ideas for you.


---
(c) 2019 by Cristyn Magnus.

licensed under a
Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License.

You should have received a copy of the license along with this
work.  If not, see http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/.