# Homework 7: Drawing 2 (with functions)

**This activity builds on homework 6. You should do it first.**

### 1 Functions

So you've used built-in functions and functions from libraries. You can 
also make your own functions.

#### Repetition
You should do this if you ever find yourself needing to do the same thing 
multiple times. Why? Imagine you want to change it. If you edit the function,
it will change everywhere it comes up. If you don't use a function, you invite
yourself to make mistakes. Maybe you'll forget everywhere it comes up and 
not fix it in all the spots.

#### Organization
The human brain is only capable of processing so many things at once. Think
back to your previous assignment. Didn't it get hard to remember which 
parts of the code were being used for different parts of the drawing?

Moving lines of code that do a simpler, discrete task into a function lets
you simplify the code so you don't have to look at as much at the same time.
It also gives you the opportunity to use self-documenting function names that
explain what that code does.

### Refactoring
The process of reorganizing existing code to be clearer and easier to build
on in the future is called **refactoring**. Most professional programming 
involves a cycle of just making something work (kind of what you did in homework
6) followed by refactoring to make it easier to understand so future development
will be easier (kind of like we're doing here).

### 2 Drawing Task

Edit your drawing from homework 6 to do the following:

* Create at least one function that *organizes* your code. This function isn't 
for reusing, it's just so your main program will be shorter and easier to read.
Give your function a self-documenting name so you can just read the main code
where you use your function and understand it without having to look at what is
inside of the function.

* Create at least one function that repeats code. Find something that you do 
more than once. If your original drawing didn't have anything like that, find
something worth repeating or add something new. Use your function at least twice.

* **Optional** Refactor your entire homework 6 program. Organize all the code
into functions. The ideal is to have each function do one describable thing. 
You might end up with some lines of code that don't *belong* in a function, because
they behave more like glue that connects the functions together. That's better
than sticking a line of code into a function that doesn't *mesh* with the name
of the function and everything else that is happening inside it.

### 3 Hints

It's OK to nest functions. You can use one of your own functions in another 
function just as easily as you can use a built-in or library function.

For example, if I were
to use the Line object to draw a person, I would probably have a functions for
eye (I'd reuse that), nose, mouth, outline, and hair. Then I could have a head 
function that called all of those functions. That way when I was thinking about 
the body, I wouldn't need to think about the details of drawing the head.

---
(c) 2019 by Cristyn Magnus.

licensed under a
Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License.

You should have received a copy of the license along with this
work.  If not, see http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/.