# Homework 10: Simple Text Encryption

### 1 Encryption

Remember how everything on the computer is encoded as 0s and 1s
to store in memory? Then there's a way to map those onto numbers,
characters, or whatever? (Aside: this is why data types are 
important).

Most encryption is just doing math on that to encode it, then the 
opposite math to decode it. 

#### Rot 13

Rot 13 (rot stands for rotation) is probably the simplest code. It only
works for letters. Start with A = 0, B = 2, C = 3, ... M = 13, N = 14
O = 15, and so on. Then you just add 13, so A -> 13, B -> 14, C -> 15, 
etc. Since A becomes M. The numbers wrap around at Z, so they're always
between 0 and 25. It doesn't actually matter if you add or subtract;
since there are 26 letters in the alphabet and 13 is the halfway point
and you wrap around, it actually doesn't matter if you add or subtract.

Here's an example:

```The quick brown fox jumped over the lazy dog.```

becomes:

```Gur dhvpx oebja sbk whzcrq bire gur ynml qbt.```

(Aside, you'll see this "...quick brown fox..." example all the time 
because it has one of each letter in the alphabet.)

You could do rot anything. Rot 1 would mean A -> B, B ->C, and so on.

#### Problems

The problem with rot 13 (or any straightforward code like this), is that
it's easy to break. If it's English and it's a 1 letter word, it's I or A. 
If it's a three letter word that comes up *all* the time, you know it's
THE. That's enough information to crack the code.

So this encoding isn't used too much. You can use other encodings, like the 
Tpich tu[ost accodemta;;u sjofted tjeor jamd cpde/, (there's an achievement
if you figure out that one). But they're still breakable. 

#### Solution

A better encryption is to use a random rotation. Random numbers on computers
aren't really random. Technically, they're pseudorandom, not random. Under
the hood, they are chaotic equations that are predictable if you know what
the last number plugged into the equation was. Random number generators 
have something called a "seed". If you give a seed to a random number generator,
you'll get a reliable sequence of numbers. (Aside: this is why some video games
you can go back to a previous save and get a better outcome, but with other
video games, going back to a previous save gives you the exact same results.
The latter are saving the seed along with the game state.)

If you want a hard-to-break code, use a random rotation instead of the same
number every time, and it is *way* harder to break. The person guessing
would have to figure out a) your initial encoding for letters, b) the
chaotic equation under the hood, and c) your starting seed. That's a lot
of guessing and processing when all you know is the original language and 
that "the" comes up a lot. (It's possible with enough computing power, but
super hard.) It gets even harder when you *don't* know the
original language, which is why in WWII, the US didn't do their own encoding,
they recruited Navajo volunteers to design and implement the code. 

### Task

Create a program that reads in a text file and either encodes or decodes it.
You can either use rot 13, or rot-something-random.

If you want to do rot-something-random, check out this tutorial on
(pseudo random number generators)[https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/pseudo-random-number-generator-prng/]. 
Or just try this algorithm from the article:

pseudoRandomNumber = (multiplier * previousPseudoRandomNumber + increment) % increment

Your first previousPseudoRandomNumber is your seed (the thing need to encode
or decode). After that, it's just the last pseudoRandomNumber. You need to play around
to find good multipliers and increments. As you play around, notice: sometimes you
end up with a bad combination and the numbers cycle pretty fast. This is one of the
first equations used to make pseudo-random numbers. I'm showing this one because the 
math is easy enough for a 100 level class, but there are much better equations out 
there now. You're welcome to use another one if you are up for the challenge.

### Hints

#### Ascii
Plain text is encoded using ascii. Here's an ascii table (copied from 
https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~pattis/15-1XX/common/handouts/ascii.html).


| Dec |Char |     | Dec |Char |     | Dec |Char |     | Dec |Char |     | 
|-----|-----|-----|-----|-----|-----|-----|-----|-----|-----|-----|-----|
|  0  |NUL |(null)                      |32  |SPACE     |64  |@         |96  |`|
|  1  |SOH |(start of heading)          |33  |!         |65  |A         |97  |a|
|  2  |STX |(start of text)             |34  |"         |66  |B         |98  |b|
|  3  |ETX |(end of text)               |35  |#         |67  |C         |99  |c|
|  4  |EOT |(end of transmission)       |36  |$         |68  |D        |100  |d|
|  5  |ENQ |(enquiry)                   |37  |%         |69  |E        |101  |e|
|  6  |ACK |(acknowledge)               |38  |&         |70  |F        |102  |f|
|  7  |BEL |(bell)                      |39  |'         |71  |G        |103  |g|
|  8  |BS  |(backspace)                 |40  |(         |72  |H        |104  |h|
|  9  |TAB |(horizontal tab)            |41  |)         |73  |I        |105  |i|
| 10  |LF  |(NL line feed, new line)    |42  |*         |74  |J        |106  |j|
| 11  |VT  |(vertical tab)              |43  |+         |75  |K        |107  |k|
| 12  |FF  |(NP form feed, new page)    |44  |,         |76  |L        |108  |l|
| 13  |CR  |(carriage return)           |45  |-         |77  |M        |109  |m|
| 14  |SO  |(shift out)                 |46  |.         |78  |N        |110  |n|
| 15  |SI  |(shift in)                  |47  |/         |79  |O        |111  |o|
| 16  |DLE |(data link escape)          |48  |0         |80  |P        |112  |p|
| 17  |DC1 |(device control 1)          |49  |1         |81  |Q        |113  |q|
| 18  |DC2 |(device control 2)          |50  |2         |82  |R        |114  |r|
| 19  |DC3 |(device control 3)          |51  |3         |83  |S        |115  |s|
| 20  |DC4 |(device control 4)          |52  |4         |84  |T        |116  |t|
| 21  |NAK |(negative acknowledge)      |53  |5         |85  |U        |117  |u|
| 22  |SYN |(synchronous idle)          |54  |6         |86  |V        |118  |v|
| 23  |ETB |(end of trans. block)       |55  |7         |87  |W        |119  |w|
| 24  |CAN |(cancel)                    |56  |8         |88  |X        |120  |x|
| 25  |EM  |(end of medium)             |57  |9         |89  |Y        |121  |y|
| 26  |SUB |(substitute)                |58  |:         |90  |Z        |122  |z|
| 27  |ESC |(escape)                    |59  |;         |91  |[        |123  |{|
| 28  |FS  |(file separator)            |60  |<         |92  |\        |124  |||
| 29  |GS  |(group separator)           |61  |=         |93  |]        |125  |}|
| 30  |RS  |(record separator)          |62  |>         |94  |^        |126  |~|
| 31  |US  |(unit separator)            |63  |?         |95  |_        |127  |DEL|

 Notice that the first 32 characters (and the last one) are weird. 
 This means that if you let *any* ascii number in, you might lose data.
 Shifts, bells, and so on, will just be lost data. If something maps
 onto delete or backspace, it will affect the previous character. 
 
 You choose: preserve punctuation and just use the rotation on letters and
 numbers, or stick to characters between 32 and 126.

####Modulo helps wrap around 

Don't remember modulo from a previous math class? 
 It's the remainder from division. So 5/7 would be 1 with a remainder of 2. 
 The % symbol is modulo. 5%7 would just be 2. It's great for wrapping 
 around. When minutes or seconds on a clock tick over from 59 to 00, it's
 using modulo under the hood. You'll need modulo to keep the numbers
 within the appropriate range and avoid weird characters.
 
#### Type conversion

Remember how we've been using float() to turn strings into numbers
 for math? We don't want floats here, because floats are decimals. Normally
 we can use int() to get integers (which will throw away any decimal points).
 But that doesn't *quite* work here. We specifically want to work with the
 numeric representation of characters and vice versa. The built-in functions
 chr() and ord() are what we need here. Use chr() to turn a number into
 a character and ord() to turn a character into a number.

#### Characters vs Strings

We've been using strings before now. What's the difference between strings
and characters? A character is a single letter. A string is a list of letters.
Strings are *iterable*, meaning we can use them in a *for* loop to get one
letter at a time.

Some languages distinguish between them, but in python it they work together
pretty smoothly. Except for situations like this where we're plucking individual
characters out of a string and doing math on them, characters don't come up
much. Once we've converted our numeric representation (from using ord() on a
character) back into a character using chr(), we can treat the result like a 
string. That means we can just use + to add it to the end of the existing
string.

#### Reading in files & Tutorials

Most programmers have
things they do a lot based on what kinds of applications they usually find themselves
making. (For example, I do machine learning, artificial life, & generative art, all 
of which are random-heavy, so I hardly ever have to look up something in the random 
library.) Some things don't come up that much and you forget how to do them. Or you
never knew how to do them in the language you are working with because they just
haven't come up yet.

For me, reading in files is one of those things. You only use it once in a program,
and once I've figured out how to do it in a particular programming language, I always
steal from my past self. But in informatics, I switch languages a lot, so every new
language means I have to figure out how that language does it.

Whatever kind of program you end up writing, you'll have something *like* that:
something that comes up every couple of years that you have to look up the syntax
every. single.
time. There are loads of tutorials online. If you find one you like, make a mental
note, so that when those things you have to look up come up, you know which
search engine hit is the best place to start.

Compare the first several hits to see if there's a site that looks like it
meshes with how your brain works: 

https://duckduckgo.com/?q=read+text+file+in+python&t=hp&ia=web

#### Nested loops

Depending on which tutorial you choose, you might end up with a recipe for
reading in a text file that gives you lines or words or something. You'll
need to go through every line of the file. But you'll also need to go through
every character of the file. The way to do this is nested loops.

Your first loop can loop through the file and give you lines or words of text.
You can indent another loop inside that one that gets each character from that line/word.
This is pseudocode, but it will look something like this:

```
for line in file:
    for character in line:
        do something to individual characters here
````

---
(c) 2019 by Cristyn Magnus.

licensed under a
Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License.

You should have received a copy of the license along with this
work.  If not, see http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/.