# Homework 11: Data Visualization


### 1 Visualization

Since big data is, *big*, how do we make sense of it? Put it in
a format where we're relying on something other than reams of
text and numbers. The biggies here are **visualization** and 
**sonification**. Sonification requires audio programming, which
we aren't doing in this class. Visualization can be done using
the graphics library we've been using most of the term.

### Task

Visualize forest fire data. We'll use the data from the Cortez & 
Morais forest fire data set (find forestfires.csv in your repository).
You can find out more about the data set here:

https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/forest+fires

### Hints

 * Visualization is more art than science. Some
 ways of displaying data will end up creating a compelling
 view of the data while others will fall flat. Play around a bit.
 You don't need to use all the columns if they don't contribute
 in an interesting way to your resulting image.

 * Experiment! Think about the visual dimensions you've got 
 available to you: shape, line/fill color, size, line thickness, etc. 
 What looks good with which variable?

 * Think about meaning: some of the columns are confusing (5-8 will
 take looking up and you might decide not to use them if they don't
 do something that looks cool) while others are straightforward (x,y
 coordinates are... x,y coordinates). You don't necessarily need to map
 x,y coordinates to x,y coordinates if you've found another pattern
 in the data that makes sense to visualize, but they're low hanging
 fruit.

 * Play with math! Some data is linear and it makes sense to straight-up
 use. Some data is tiny or huge and might need to be multiplied/divided
 to make visual sense with the graphics library. Some data might be 
 exponential so that either parts of it are indistinguishably similar or 
 other parts get huge land out of the window. If you get data like that, 
 try playing with the log() function from the math library.

 * Play more. Sometimes things end up overlapping so you can't see clusters
 of data. The granularity on x,y in this data set is pretty big. You could
 multiply them by a random number so that the data un-stacks and you can
 see clusters of fires at the same coordinates.


---
(c) 2019 by Cristyn Magnus.

licensed under a
Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License.

You should have received a copy of the license along with this
work.  If not, see http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/.